그림 5를 좀 더 키워줄 것


서론에서 설명할때 인력에 대한 문제~~~ 제시
후 센서에 대한 문제 제시~~~ 할것 같은데
센서에 대한 문제 제시가 아니라 설명이 나와서 문맥이 맞지 않다


4.1 에 모델 설명 위치 옮김

인용표기 몬가 이상 물어봐야하는데 이건

접촉식 센서


Water and feed which directly affect livestock productivity. 
-물과 사료의 관리는 돈사의 생산성에 직결된다.

are detected using CCTV video data and a semantic segmentation model.

Due to decreased accuracy in segmentation when performing it on original data, this research proposes a method of overlapping multiple segmentation maps to pre-locate specific areas and utilize this information in subsequent segmentation tasks. For experimentation, DeepLabv3+ was employed for semantic segmenatation. The accuracy of bowl location detection by the model reached its highest performance with mIoU of 0.811. The detection accuracy of water and feed reached an mIoU of 0.76. It is expected that by collecting more data and enhancing accuracy, operational tasks on farms could be reduced in the future.


This study aims to detect water overflow and feed shortage situations within pig feeding bowls using CCTV video data and a semantic segmentation model, addressing the critical aspects of productivity in the swine industry. Due to decreased accuracy observed during segmentation of original data, we propose a method of overlapping multiple segmentation maps to pre-locate specific areas and utilize this information in subsequent segmentation tasks. Initially, we locate the positions of feeding bowls and then proceed with the detection of feed and water. The bowl location detection achieved its highest performance with an mIoU of 0.811 when utilizing DeepLabv3+. Moreover, the detection accuracy of feed and water reached an mIoU of 0.76 with the proposed method. It is anticipated that by collecting more data and enhancing accuracy, operational tasks on farms could be reduced in the future.